README.md, before:

# x-api-sdk-ts

Simple and versatile typescript SDK for X Api.

Have you checked [twitter-api-typescript-sdk](https://github.com/xdevplatform/twitter-api-typescript-sdk)?  

## Overview

x-api-sdk-ts is a flexible TypeScript SDK for the X API, providing a type-safe, and intuitive interface to interact with v2 endpoints.  

*Twitter's v1.1 endpoints are not supported, but can be implemented. if this is something you need, please open an issue.*  

## Table of Contents

- [Features](#features)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Generate OAuth2 token from console](#generate-oauth2-token-from-console)
- [Examples](#examples)
  - [Scripts](#scripts)
  - [Authentication](#authentication)
  - [Get accessToken and refreshToken](#get-accesstoken-and-refreshtoken)
  - [Set accessToken and refreshToken](#set-accesstoken-and-refreshtoken)
  - [Check for successful response](#check-for-successful-response)
    - [Usage example](#usage-example)
  - [Media Upload](#media-upload)
  - [Get Media Upload Status](#get-media-upload-status)
  - [Add Metadata to Media](#add-metadata-to-media)
  - [Create Post](#create-post)
  - [Delete Post](#delete-post)
  - [Get One Post](#get-one-post)
  - [Get Several Posts](#get-several-posts)
  - [Like Post](#like-post)
  - [Get Authenticated User Info](#get-authenticated-user-info)
- [Change Base URL](#change-base-url)
- [Change HTTP Adapter](#change-http-adapter)
  - [Using Axios](#using-axios)
  - [Create a custom HTTP adapter](#create-a-custom-http-adapter)
- [Development Documentation](#development-documentation)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [Code of Conduct](#code-of-conduct)
- [License](#license)
s
## Features

- Full TypeScript type definitions and JSDOC of supported endpoints.
- Partial implementation of Twitter API v2 endpoints.
- Support authentication for OAuth 2.0 (v2).
- Modular architecture for easy customization and extension using depencencies injection.
- 0 dependencies.
- Supported v2 endpoints:
  - Media
    - Upload
    - Get status
    - Add metadata
  - Posts
    - Create
    - Get
    - GetMultiple
    - Delete
  - Likes
    - Add
  - Users
    - Get information about the authenticated user

## Installation

```bash
npm install x-api-sdk-ts
```

## Generate OAuth2 token from console

See: [examples/generate-oauth2-token.mjs](https://github.com/Micka33/x-api-sdk-ts/blob/main/examples/generate-oauth2-token.mjs)

- **NB:**
  - Set `clientId` to your App's OAuth 2.0 Client ID
  - Set `clientSecret` to your App's OAuth 2.0 Client Secret
  - Set `redirectUri` to your App's Callback URI / Redirect URL
    - Or set your App's Callback URI / Redirect URL to `http://localhost:3000/oauth2/callback`

## Examples

### Scripts

you will find some examples in the [examples](https://github.com/Micka33/x-api-sdk-ts/tree/main/examples) folder.

- [examples/basic-usage.ts](https://github.com/Micka33/x-api-sdk-ts/blob/main/examples/basic-usage.ts)
- [examples/generate-oauth2-token.mjs](https://github.com/Micka33/x-api-sdk-ts/blob/main/examples/generate-oauth2-token.mjs)
- [examples/media-upload.ts](https://github.com/Micka33/x-api-sdk-ts/blob/main/examples/media-upload.ts)

### Authentication

The SDK supports OAuth 2.0 (for v2 API).  
*It is designed to be easily extendable to support OAuth 1.0a (for v1.1 API) in the future. if this is something you need, please open an issue.*

```typescript
import { TwitterApiScope, TwitterClient } from 'x-api-sdk-ts';

const clientId = 'input_client_id_here';
const clientSecret = 'input_client_secret_here';
const redirectUri = 'http://localhost:3000/oauth2/callback';
const scopes = [ TwitterApiScope.UsersRead, TwitterApiScope.TweetRead, TwitterApiScope.TweetWrite, TwitterApiScope.OfflineAccess, TwitterApiScope.MediaWrite ];

const accessToken = 'input_access_token_here';
const refreshToken = 'input_refresh_token_here';
const tokenExpiresAt = new Date('input_token_expires_at_here').getTime();

// Initialize the Twitter client
const twitterClient = new TwitterClient({
  oAuth2: { clientId, clientSecret, scopes, redirectUri, accessToken, refreshToken, tokenExpiresAt },
});
```

### Get accessToken and refreshToken

```typescript
const token = twitterClient.oAuth2.getToken();
const { accessToken, refreshToken, tokenExpiresAt } = token;
```

### Set accessToken and refreshToken

```typescript
twitterClient.oAuth2.setToken(accessToken, refreshToken, tokenExpiresAt);
```

### Check for successful response

For convenience, the SDK provides 2 methods to check a response and assert its type.  
They are accessible from the `twitterClient` object.

```typescript
twitterClient.isSuccessResponse<T>(response: RCResponse<T>): response is RCResponseSimple<T>;
twitterClient.isErrorResponse<T>(response: RCResponse<T>): response is RCResponse<never>;
```

#### Usage example

```typescript
const postResponse = await twitterClient.posts.create('Hello World!');
if (twitterClient.isSuccessResponse(postResponse)) {
  // postResponse.data is of type ICreatePostResponse
  console.log('Successfully posted tweet');
}
if (twitterClient.isErrorResponse(postResponse)) {
  // postResponse.data is of type XError | string | undefined | null
  console.log('Failed to post tweet');
}
```


### Media Upload

The `upload` method automatically handles the chunked upload process.  
The file is uploaded in chunks of 1MB or 10 chunks, whichever is larger.  

**NB:** You can also specify a custom chunk size as 4th parameter.

```typescript
const mediaResponse = await twitterClient.media.upload(
  fs.readFileSync('path/to/media/doge.jpeg'),
  'image/jpeg',
  'tweet_image'
);
const mediaData = mediaResponse.data;
const mediaId = mediaData.data.id;
```

### Get Media Upload Status

```typescript
const media = await twitterClient.media.getUploadStatus(mediaId);
const mediaStatus = media.data.data.processing_info.state; // 'succeeded' | 'in_progress' | 'pending' | 'failed'
```

### Add Metadata to Media

```typescript
const mediaMetadata = await twitterClient.media.addMetadata(
  mediaId,                          // media id
  'A smiling dog profile picture',  // alt text
  true,                             // allow download
  'u5BzatR15TZ04',                  // optional, original media id
  'giphy',                          // optional, original media provider
  'gallery'                         // optional, upload source
);
```

### Create Post

```typescript
const post = await twitterClient.posts.create(
  'Hello World!',
  {
    media: { media_ids: [mediaId] },
  }
);
const postId = post.data.id;
```

### Delete Post

```typescript
await twitterClient.posts.delete(postId);
```

### Get One Post

```typescript
const post = await twitterClient.posts.get(postId, {
  mediaFields: ['alt_text', 'type', 'url', 'media_key'],
});
const postId = post.data.id;
const postText = post.data.text;
const postAuthorId = post.data.author_id;
const postUsername = post.data.username;
const postMediaKey = post.data.attachments?.media_keys?.[0];
const otherpostMediaKey = post.includes?.media?.[0].media_keys?.[0];
```

### Get Several Posts

```typescript
const posts = await twitterClient.posts.getMultiple([postId1, postId2, postId3], {
  mediaFields: ['alt_text', 'type', 'url', 'media_key'],
});
const post1 = posts.data[0];
const post2 = posts.data[1];
const post3 = posts.data[2];
```

### Like Post

```typescript
const like = await twitterClient.likes.add(postId);
const liked = like.data.liked;
```

### Get Authenticated User Info

```typescript
const user = await twitterClient.users.getMe();
const userId = user.data.id;
const userName = user.data.name;
const userUsername = user.data.username;
```

## Change Base URL

By default the SDK uses the X API base URL: `https://api.x.com`.  
You can change the base URL by setting the `baseUrl` parameter in the constructor.

```typescript

const twitterClient = new TwitterClient(config, { baseUrl: 'https://api.twitter.com' });
```

## Change HTTP Adapter

By default, the SDK uses the `FetchAdapter`, which is a thin wrapper around the native `fetch` API.  
You can change the HTTP adapter by setting the `httpAdapter` parameter in the constructor.

### Using Axios

`x-api-sdk-ts` comes bundled with an Axios adapter.  
To use it, you need to install the `axios` package.

```bash
npm install axios
```

And then use it like this:

```typescript
import axios from 'axios';
import { AxiosAdapter, TwitterApiScope, TwitterClient } from 'x-api-sdk-ts';

axios.defaults.adapter = 'http'; // see: https://github.com/axios/axios?tab=readme-ov-file#-fetch-adapter

const config = {/**/};
const twitterClient = new TwitterClient(config, { httpAdapter: [AxiosAdapter, axios] });
```

### Create a custom HTTP adapter

You can create your own custom HTTP adapter by implementing the `IHttpAdapter` interface.

```typescript
import { IHttpAdapter, IHttpFetchResponse } from 'x-api-sdk-ts';

export class CustomHttpAdapter implements IHttpAdapter {
  constructor(private paramA: string, private paramB: number) {}
  public async fetch<T>(url: string, options?: RequestInit): Promise<IHttpFetchResponse<T>> {
    return fetch(url, options);
  }
}
```

And then use it like this:

```typescript
const twitterClient = new TwitterClient(config, {
  httpAdapter: [CustomHttpAdapter, 'paramA', 'paramB']
});
```




## Development Documentation

See [Development Documentation](https://github.com/Micka33/x-api-sdk-ts/blob/main/DEVELOPMENT.md).

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please see our [Contributing Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) for more details.

## Code of Conduct

By participating in this project, you agree to abide by our [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

Commit message:

docs: adds `Understanding the responses` section

README.md, after:

# x-api-sdk-ts

Simple and versatile typescript SDK for X Api.

Have you checked [twitter-api-typescript-sdk](https://github.com/xdevplatform/twitter-api-typescript-sdk)?  

## Overview

x-api-sdk-ts is a flexible TypeScript SDK for the X API, providing a type-safe, and intuitive interface to interact with v2 endpoints.  

*Twitter's v1.1 endpoints are not supported, but can be implemented. if this is something you need, please open an issue.*  

## Table of Contents

- [Features](#features)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Generate OAuth2 token from console](#generate-oauth2-token-from-console)
- [Understanding the responses](#understanding-the-responses)
- [Examples](#examples)
  - [Scripts](#scripts)
  - [Authentication](#authentication)
  - [Get accessToken and refreshToken](#get-accesstoken-and-refreshtoken)
  - [Set accessToken and refreshToken](#set-accesstoken-and-refreshtoken)
  - [Check for successful response](#check-for-successful-response)
    - [Usage example](#usage-example)
  - [Media Upload](#media-upload)
  - [Get Media Upload Status](#get-media-upload-status)
  - [Add Metadata to Media](#add-metadata-to-media)
  - [Create Post](#create-post)
  - [Delete Post](#delete-post)
  - [Get One Post](#get-one-post)
  - [Get Several Posts](#get-several-posts)
  - [Like Post](#like-post)
  - [Get Authenticated User Info](#get-authenticated-user-info)
- [Change Base URL](#change-base-url)
- [Change HTTP Adapter](#change-http-adapter)
  - [Using Axios](#using-axios)
  - [Create a custom HTTP adapter](#create-a-custom-http-adapter)
- [Development Documentation](#development-documentation)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [Code of Conduct](#code-of-conduct)
- [License](#license)

## Features

- Full TypeScript type definitions and JSDOC of supported endpoints.
- Partial implementation of Twitter API v2 endpoints.
- Support authentication for OAuth 2.0 (v2).
- Modular architecture for easy customization and extension using depencencies injection.
- 0 dependencies.
- Supported v2 endpoints:
  - Media
    - Upload
    - Get status
    - Add metadata
  - Posts
    - Create
    - Get
    - GetMultiple
    - Delete
  - Likes
    - Add
  - Users
    - Get information about the authenticated user

## Installation

```bash
npm install x-api-sdk-ts
```

## Generate OAuth2 token from console

See: [examples/generate-oauth2-token.mjs](https://github.com/Micka33/x-api-sdk-ts/blob/main/examples/generate-oauth2-token.mjs)

- **NB:**
  - Set `clientId` to your App's OAuth 2.0 Client ID
  - Set `clientSecret` to your App's OAuth 2.0 Client Secret
  - Set `redirectUri` to your App's Callback URI / Redirect URL
    - Or set your App's Callback URI / Redirect URL to `http://localhost:3000/oauth2/callback`

## Understanding the responses

The SDK returns a response object with the following structure:
```ts
{
  data: T | IXError | string | null | undefined; // the response data from twitter
  ok: boolean; // HTTP code >= 200 && < 300
  status: number; // HTTP code
  headers: Headers; // response headers
  rateLimitInfo: IRateLimitInfo; // brought from the response headers for convenience
}
```

Whatever X Api returns will be stored in the `data` property.  
As example, if you call the `twitterClient.posts.create` method, the response data type `T` will be [`ICreatePostResponse`](https://github.com/Micka33/x-api-sdk-ts/blob/main/src/types/x-api/posts/create_post_response.ts) which maps directly to X's documentation [Creation of a Post](https://docs.x.com/x-api/posts/creation-of-a-post#response-data).

This is true for all the endpoints.

## Examples

### Scripts

you will find some examples in the [examples](https://github.com/Micka33/x-api-sdk-ts/tree/main/examples) folder.

- [examples/basic-usage.ts](https://github.com/Micka33/x-api-sdk-ts/blob/main/examples/basic-usage.ts)
- [examples/generate-oauth2-token.mjs](https://github.com/Micka33/x-api-sdk-ts/blob/main/examples/generate-oauth2-token.mjs)
- [examples/media-upload.ts](https://github.com/Micka33/x-api-sdk-ts/blob/main/examples/media-upload.ts)

### Authentication

The SDK supports OAuth 2.0 (for v2 API).  
*It is designed to be easily extendable to support OAuth 1.0a (for v1.1 API) in the future. if this is something you need, please open an issue.*

```typescript
import { TwitterApiScope, TwitterClient } from 'x-api-sdk-ts';

const clientId = 'input_client_id_here';
const clientSecret = 'input_client_secret_here';
const redirectUri = 'http://localhost:3000/oauth2/callback';
const scopes = [ TwitterApiScope.UsersRead, TwitterApiScope.TweetRead, TwitterApiScope.TweetWrite, TwitterApiScope.OfflineAccess, TwitterApiScope.MediaWrite ];

const accessToken = 'input_access_token_here';
const refreshToken = 'input_refresh_token_here';
const tokenExpiresAt = new Date('input_token_expires_at_here').getTime();

// Initialize the Twitter client
const twitterClient = new TwitterClient({
  oAuth2: { clientId, clientSecret, scopes, redirectUri, accessToken, refreshToken, tokenExpiresAt },
});
```

### Get accessToken and refreshToken

```typescript
const token = twitterClient.oAuth2.getToken();
const { accessToken, refreshToken, tokenExpiresAt } = token;
```

### Set accessToken and refreshToken

```typescript
twitterClient.oAuth2.setToken(accessToken, refreshToken, tokenExpiresAt);
```

### Check for successful response

For convenience, the SDK provides 2 methods to check a response and assert its type.  
They are accessible from the `twitterClient` object.

```typescript
twitterClient.isSuccessResponse<T>(response: RCResponse<T>): response is RCResponseSimple<T>;
twitterClient.isErrorResponse<T>(response: RCResponse<T>): response is RCResponse<never>;
```

#### Usage example

```typescript
const postResponse = await twitterClient.posts.create('Hello World!');
if (twitterClient.isSuccessResponse(postResponse)) {
  // postResponse.data is of type ICreatePostResponse
  console.log('Successfully posted tweet');
}
if (twitterClient.isErrorResponse(postResponse)) {
  // postResponse.data is of type XError | string | undefined | null
  console.log('Failed to post tweet');
}
```


### Media Upload

The `upload` method automatically handles the chunked upload process.  
The file is uploaded in chunks of 1MB or 10 chunks, whichever is larger.  

**NB:** You can also specify a custom chunk size as 4th parameter.

```typescript
const mediaResponse = await twitterClient.media.upload(
  fs.readFileSync('path/to/media/doge.jpeg'),
  'image/jpeg',
  'tweet_image'
);
const mediaData = mediaResponse.data;
const mediaId = mediaData.data.id;
```

### Get Media Upload Status

```typescript
const media = await twitterClient.media.getUploadStatus(mediaId);
const mediaStatus = media.data.data.processing_info.state; // 'succeeded' | 'in_progress' | 'pending' | 'failed'
```

### Add Metadata to Media

```typescript
const mediaMetadata = await twitterClient.media.addMetadata(
  mediaId,                          // media id
  'A smiling dog profile picture',  // alt text
  true,                             // allow download
  'u5BzatR15TZ04',                  // optional, original media id
  'giphy',                          // optional, original media provider
  'gallery'                         // optional, upload source
);
```

### Create Post

```typescript
const post = await twitterClient.posts.create(
  'Hello World!',
  {
    media: { media_ids: [mediaId] },
  }
);
const postId = post.data.id;
```

### Delete Post

```typescript
await twitterClient.posts.delete(postId);
```

### Get One Post

```typescript
const post = await twitterClient.posts.get(postId, {
  mediaFields: ['alt_text', 'type', 'url', 'media_key'],
});
const postId = post.data.id;
const postText = post.data.text;
const postAuthorId = post.data.author_id;
const postUsername = post.data.username;
const postMediaKey = post.data.attachments?.media_keys?.[0];
const otherpostMediaKey = post.includes?.media?.[0].media_keys?.[0];
```

### Get Several Posts

```typescript
const posts = await twitterClient.posts.getMultiple([postId1, postId2, postId3], {
  mediaFields: ['alt_text', 'type', 'url', 'media_key'],
});
const post1 = posts.data[0];
const post2 = posts.data[1];
const post3 = posts.data[2];
```

### Like Post

```typescript
const like = await twitterClient.likes.add(postId);
const liked = like.data.liked;
```

### Get Authenticated User Info

```typescript
const user = await twitterClient.users.getMe();
const userId = user.data.id;
const userName = user.data.name;
const userUsername = user.data.username;
```

## Change Base URL

By default the SDK uses the X API base URL: `https://api.x.com`.  
You can change the base URL by setting the `baseUrl` parameter in the constructor.

```typescript

const twitterClient = new TwitterClient(config, { baseUrl: 'https://api.twitter.com' });
```

## Change HTTP Adapter

By default, the SDK uses the `FetchAdapter`, which is a thin wrapper around the native `fetch` API.  
You can change the HTTP adapter by setting the `httpAdapter` parameter in the constructor.

### Using Axios

`x-api-sdk-ts` comes bundled with an Axios adapter.  
To use it, you need to install the `axios` package.

```bash
npm install axios
```

And then use it like this:

```typescript
import axios from 'axios';
import { AxiosAdapter, TwitterApiScope, TwitterClient } from 'x-api-sdk-ts';

axios.defaults.adapter = 'http'; // see: https://github.com/axios/axios?tab=readme-ov-file#-fetch-adapter

const config = {/**/};
const twitterClient = new TwitterClient(config, { httpAdapter: [AxiosAdapter, axios] });
```

### Create a custom HTTP adapter

You can create your own custom HTTP adapter by implementing the `IHttpAdapter` interface.

```typescript
import { IHttpAdapter, IHttpFetchResponse } from 'x-api-sdk-ts';

export class CustomHttpAdapter implements IHttpAdapter {
  constructor(private paramA: string, private paramB: number) {}
  public async fetch<T>(url: string, options?: RequestInit): Promise<IHttpFetchResponse<T>> {
    return fetch(url, options);
  }
}
```

And then use it like this:

```typescript
const twitterClient = new TwitterClient(config, {
  httpAdapter: [CustomHttpAdapter, 'paramA', 'paramB']
});
```




## Development Documentation

See [Development Documentation](https://github.com/Micka33/x-api-sdk-ts/blob/main/DEVELOPMENT.md).

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please see our [Contributing Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) for more details.

## Code of Conduct

By participating in this project, you agree to abide by our [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
